---
layout: post
title: About Me
slug: about
---

I am Kourosh Rahimi, born in 1988, Ph.D. in Condensed Matter Physics, living in Tehran, Iran. I am currently doing hybrid computational and experimental research on two-dimensional materials and metal oxide nanostructures for energy storage, photocatalysis, sensors, etc.


## EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND



* **B.Sc. in Physics**, University of Tehran, 2006-2010, Iran, Tehran
* **M.Sc. in Condensed Matter Physics**, Sharif University of Technology, 2010-2012, Iran, Tehran
  * **Thesis title**: “_Fabrication of TiO<sub>2</sub>/Graphene nanowalls as a visible-light-induced photocatalyst_” under the supervision of Dr. Omid Akhavan

* **Ph.D. in Condensed Matter Physics**, Tarbiat Modares University, 2012-2018, Iran, Tehran

  * **Thesis title**: “_Investigation of photocatalytic and ultraviolet detection properties of zinc oxide and nickel oxide with graphene nanostructures and silver nanoparticles_”



## SKILLS

*   **Experimental physics experience:** Comprehensive skills in synthesis and characterization of materials including carbon-based materials (e.g., graphene and graphene quantum dots), metal oxides (e.g., ZnO and TiO<sub>2</sub>), ferrites (e.g., NiFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, CoFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, and MnFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>) for photocatalysts, sensors, electrochemical storage systems, and supercapacitors.
*   **Experimental physics software:** Ability to work with almost all the relevant software to analyze outputs from characterization instruments including PANalytical XPert’s Highscore Plus (for XRD patterns), ProScan and Gwyddion (for AFM micrographs and surface analysis), ThermoNicolet’s OMNIC (for FTIR and Raman spectra), ECLab (for electrochemistry tests), and Origin Pro and Excel for general data manipulation and analysis. 
*   **Computational physics software**: DFT and NEGF codes, including Quantum Espresso and SIESTA/TranSIESTA/TBTrans. Various tools, including VESTA, XCRYSDEN, BURAI, etc.
*   **Programming languages:** Python, C/C++, Unix/Linux Bash with GIT and Github technologies
*   **General computer:** Strong ability to work in both Windows and LINUX operating systems.
*   **English language skills**: Fluent. Bilateral translator. 


## HONORS

*   Member of Iran's National Elites Foundation
*   The first score rank in the Ph.D. course.
*   Reviewers of reputable journals including PCCP and MCP
*   member of “Iranian network of translators”


## PREVIOUS RESEARCH AREAS

My main research areas in both M.Sc. and Ph.D. studies were focused on experimental physics, particularly 2D materials and metal oxides. My research was focused on graphene, graphene quantum dots, titanium dioxide (TiO<sub>2</sub>), zinc oxide (ZnO), nickel oxide (NiO), iron oxides (Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>), manganese dioxide (MnO<sub>2</sub>) for photocatalysts, UV sensors, and gas sensors. During my Ph.D. studies, I had a direct role and a direct collaboration in defining proposals for several M.Sc. students at Tarbiat Modares University with the following subjects:

*   “_Preparation and characterization of Graphene/Nickel Oxide nanorods composite as supercapacitor electrodes_”
*   “_Preparation and characterization of Graphene/Manganese Oxide nanorods composite as supercapacitor electrodes_”
*   “_Composites of graphene and NiO nanorods for supercapacitor application_”
*   “_Investigating possible magnetism effects in few-layer MoS<sub>2</sub> and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> nanoparticles_”
*   “_Investigating magnetism in few-layer WS<sub>2</sub>”_


## CURRENT RESEARCH AREAS

Although my main research area in both M.Sc. and Ph.D. studies was experimental physics, I started computational physics to gain a more robust understanding of what is happening behind the scene. My deep knowledge of programming languages has helped me a lot in this regard. I am pursuing computational physics in the framework of density functional theory (DFT) using Quantum Espresso and SIESTA, and also the non-equilibrium Green’s function (NEGF) method as implemented in TBTrans and TranSIESTA codes for transport properties. I am currently trying to validate my own experimentally fabricated sensors and supercapacitors and those of our research group with computational physics. My computational research covers the following fields:

*   2D materials: g-ZnO, β-Sb, α-PtO<sub>2</sub>, 1T-TiS<sub>2</sub>, 2H-TiS<sub>2</sub>, PdTe<sub>2</sub>, PtTe<sub>2</sub>
*   van der Waals heterostructures of 2D materials 
*   Experimental and computational gas sensing properties of 2D materials
*   Transport properties of 2D materials

Furthermore, I am currently working as a researcher in the experimental and computational laboratories of Dr. Ahmad Yazdani at Tarbiat Modares University. I am also participating in drafting the proposal of, and assisting, two Ph.D. students with the following theses:

*   Experimental work: “_Fabrication and characterization of ferrite composites based on layered nanostructures as supercapacitor electrodes_”
*   Computational work: “_Investigation of electronic and magnetic properties of heterostructures composed of antimonene (single-layer Sb) and transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) and the effects of defects and dopings on them_”


## PUBLICATIONS

[1] Adverse effects of graphene incorporated in TiO<sub>2</sub> photocatalyst on minuscule animals under solar light irradiation (2012). _Journal of Materials Chemistry_, 22(43), 23260-23266. 

[2] Preparation and characterization of Graphene/Nickel Oxide nanorods composite (2015). _International Journal of Nano Dimension_, 6(4), 371-376.

[3] The variation of Eg-shape dependence of NiO nanoparticles by the variation of annealing temperature (2018). _Materials Science in Semiconductor Processing_, 74, 225-231.

[4] Facile preparation of zinc oxide nanorods surrounded by graphene quantum dots both synthesized via separate pyrolysis procedures for photocatalyst application (2018). _Materials Research Bulletin_, 98, 148-154.

[5] Graphene quantum dots enhance UV photoresponsivity and surface-related sensing speed of zinc oxide nanorod thin films (2018). _Materials & Design_, 140, 222-230.

[6] Reduced graphene oxide can activate the sunlight-induced photocatalytic effect of NiO nanowires (2018). _Materials & Design_, 144, 214-221.

[7] Effect of magnetic field on Ni nanoclusters prepared via a combined plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition and radio frequency sputtering (2018). _The European Physical Journal Plus_, 133(6), 216.

[8] Improving photocatalytic activity of ZnO nanorods: A comparison between thermal decomposition of zinc acetate under vacuum and in ambient air (2018). _Materials Science in Semiconductor Processing_, 80, 38-43.

[9] Ethanol-sensitive nearly aligned ZnO nanorod thin films covered by graphene quantum dots (2018). _Materials Letters_, 228, 65-67.

[10] Enhancement of sunlight-induced photocatalytic activity of ZnO nanorods by few-layer MoS<sub>2</sub> nanosheets (2019). _Materials Letters_, 234, 134-137.

[11] Optical detection of CO gas by the surface-plasmon resonance of Ag nanoparticles and nanoclusters synthesized on hydrogenated amorphous Carbons (a-C:H) film (2019). _The European Physical Journal Plus, 134(7), 328._

[12] Crystalline anisotropy associated with a second antiferromagnetic phase in the absence of spin density wave in the heavily hydrogen-doped LaFeAsO<sub>1-x</sub>H<sub>x</sub> (2019). _Journal of Applied Physics_, 125, 193901

[13] Possible bandgap values of graphene-like ZnO in density functional theory corrected by the Hubbard U term and HSE hybrid functional (2020). _Materials Today Communications_, 22, 100756.

[14] Effect of Co<sup>2+</sup> content on supercapacitance properties of hydrothermally synthesized Ni<sub>1-x</sub>Co<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticles (2020). _Materials Science in Semiconductor Processing_, 108, 104902.

[15] Incremental photocatalytic reduction of graphene oxide on vertical ZnO nanorods for ultraviolet sensing (2020). _Materials Letters_, 262, 127078.

[16] Tunable electronic properties of the novel g-ZnO/1T-TiS<sub>2</sub> vdW heterostructure by electric field and strain: crossovers in bandgap and band alignment types (2020). _Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys._, 22(14), 7412-7420.

[17] Incremental substitution of Ni with Mn in NiFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> to largely enhance its supercapacitance properties (2020). _Scientific Reports_, 10(1), 1-15.

[18] Tunable electronic and optical properties of g-ZnO/α-PtO<sub>2</sub> van der Waals heterostructure: A density functional theory study (2020). _Materials Chemistry and Physics_, 123617.

[19] Photocatalytic activity of graphene quantum dots synthesized by pyrolysis of citric acid for different times under ultraviolet and visible sources (2020). (Under revision) 

[20] Electric-field- and strain-induced adjustability of vdW heterostructure of g-ZnO/2H-TiS<sub>2</sub> for optoelectronic applications (2020). (Under revision) 


## FIND ME AT:
* [ResearchGate](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Kourosh_Rahimi)
* [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/kourosh-rahimi)
* [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Z7FLTX4AAAAJ&hl=en)
* [Medium](https://medium.com/@kourosh_rahimi)
* [Virgool](https://virgool.io/@kourosh_rahimi)
* [Github](https://github.com/kouroshrahimi)
* [ORCID](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9536-1903)
* [Twitter](https://www.twitter.com/rahimi_kourosh)
